README.md, before:

# Space Shooter

<p align="center">
  <img width="60%" src="https://github.com/crystal-bit/into-the-breach-opening/raw/master/itb.gif">
</p>

<blockquote> Intro scene here: https://github.com/crystal-bit/into-the-breach-opening</blockquote>

*Space Shooter* is a shoot'em-up game created for the [Hacktoberfest 2019](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/).  

It's intended for people who want to learn Godot game programming in a collaborative way.

## How can I contribute?

In two ways:

1. **Opening a new issue**: did you find a bug? Do you have an idea for the gameplay? Do you want to suggest an improvement? [Open a new issue](https://github.com/crystal-bit/space-shooter/issues/new).
1. **Working on an issue**: take a look at the open issues: https://github.com/crystal-bit/space-shooter/issues  
Did you find something that you would like to work on? Great! Then keep reading...

### Please follow these simple rules ⤵️

1. ➡️ **Write a short message** in the issue itself to notify others that you are working on it.
2. ➡️ __Ask for help__ if you are stuck. You can push what you have, even if it is incomplete or it has some bug. We will review it and fix it.
3. ➡️ __Don't take a task if you don't have time to work on it__.
4. ➡️ __Happy coding__! I hope you will learn a lot during the process!

I hope these rules will help everyone having an enjoyable Hacktoberfest, avoiding conflicts!

## _"Non parlo Inglese"_ (_"I don't speak English!"_)

🇮🇹 Non preoccuparti, aiutati con Google Translate e prova ad esprimere il concetto. Se proprio non riesci, scrivi in Italiano ma ricorda che sapere comunicare in Inglese è una skill importante da avere per lavorare nell'industria del software e dei videogame.

🇬🇧 / 🇺🇸 Don't worry, use Google Translate for help and try to express the concept. If you really can't, write in your language, but remember that knowing how to communicate in English is an important skill to have for working in the software and video game industry.

🇪🇸 No se preocupe, ayúdese con Google Translate e intente expresar el concepto. Si realmente no puede, escriba en italiano, pero recuerde que saber cómo comunicarse en inglés es una habilidad importante para trabajar en la industria del software y los videojuegos.

🇧🇷 Não se preocupe, use o Google Tradutor para ajudá-lo e tente explicar seu conceito. Se você realmente não conseguir, escreva no seu idioma, mas lembre-se que aprender a se comunicar em inglês é uma habilidade importante para trabalhar na industria de software e video games.

*Another flag* ... (see https://github.com/crystal-bit/space-shooter/issues/3)

# License

- **Code**: GPLv3
- **Graphics Assets**: see [warped-city/public-license.txt](https://github.com/crystal-bit/space-shooter/blob/master/Assets/warped%20city%20files/public-license.txt)

Commit message:

Add code style guide to README

README.md, after:

# Space Shooter

<p align="center">
  <img width="60%" src="https://github.com/crystal-bit/into-the-breach-opening/raw/master/itb.gif">
</p>

<blockquote> Intro scene here: https://github.com/crystal-bit/into-the-breach-opening</blockquote>

*Space Shooter* is a shoot'em-up game created for the [Hacktoberfest 2019](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/).  

It's intended for people who want to learn Godot game programming in a collaborative way.

## How can I contribute?

In two ways:

1. **Opening a new issue**: did you find a bug? Do you have an idea for the gameplay? Do you want to suggest an improvement? [Open a new issue](https://github.com/crystal-bit/space-shooter/issues/new).
1. **Working on an issue**: take a look at the open issues: https://github.com/crystal-bit/space-shooter/issues  
Did you find something that you would like to work on? Great! Then keep reading...

## Code style

Please follow [the official GDScript style guide](http://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/getting_started/scripting/gdscript/gdscript_styleguide.html) when making pull requests.

Why? Well, everyone has his own preference when writing code, but when collaborating with others it's good to respect a common style. Since Space Shooter is a learning project, I think the best choice is to follow the official style guide.


### Please follow these simple rules ⤵️

1. ➡️ **Write a short message** in the issue itself to notify others that you are working on it.
2. ➡️ __Ask for help__ if you are stuck. You can push what you have, even if it is incomplete or it has some bug. We will review it and fix it.
3. ➡️ __Don't take a task if you don't have time to work on it__.
4. ➡️ __Happy coding__! I hope you will learn a lot during the process!

I hope these rules will help everyone having an enjoyable Hacktoberfest, avoiding conflicts!

## _"Non parlo Inglese"_ (_"I don't speak English!"_)

🇮🇹 Non preoccuparti, aiutati con Google Translate e prova ad esprimere il concetto. Se proprio non riesci, scrivi in Italiano ma ricorda che sapere comunicare in Inglese è una skill importante da avere per lavorare nell'industria del software e dei videogame.

🇬🇧 / 🇺🇸 Don't worry, use Google Translate for help and try to express the concept. If you really can't, write in your language, but remember that knowing how to communicate in English is an important skill to have for working in the software and video game industry.

🇪🇸 No se preocupe, ayúdese con Google Translate e intente expresar el concepto. Si realmente no puede, escriba en italiano, pero recuerde que saber cómo comunicarse en inglés es una habilidad importante para trabajar en la industria del software y los videojuegos.

🇧🇷 Não se preocupe, use o Google Tradutor para ajudá-lo e tente explicar seu conceito. Se você realmente não conseguir, escreva no seu idioma, mas lembre-se que aprender a se comunicar em inglês é uma habilidade importante para trabalhar na industria de software e video games.

*Another flag* ... (see https://github.com/crystal-bit/space-shooter/issues/3)

# License

- **Code**: GPLv3
- **Graphics Assets**: see [warped-city/public-license.txt](https://github.com/crystal-bit/space-shooter/blob/master/Assets/warped%20city%20files/public-license.txt)
